Developed by CDISC (Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium)

SDTM is one of the required standards for data submission to FDA (U.S.) and PMDA (Japan).

The Study Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) provides a standard for organizing and formatting data to streamline processes in 
collection, management, analysis and reporting. Implementing SDTM supports data aggregation and warehousing; fosters mining and reuse; 
facilitates sharing; helps perform due diligence and other important data review activities; and improves the regulatory review and approval process. 

SDTM is also used in non-clinical data (SEND), medical devices and pharmacogenomics/genetics studies. SDTM is one of the required 
standards for data submission to FDA (U.S.) and PMDA (Japan).

SDTM Theory and Application (Virtual | Microsoft Teams)
https://learnstore.cdisc.org/product?catalog=SDTMTAHCTED2

The Study Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) is a specification for structuring pre-clinical and clinical data to support interoperable 
and reusable data sharing, including submissions to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Japan’s Pharmaceutical and Medical 
Devices Agency (PMDA) in support of marketing applications.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qQLi-RFM9P4

    -Describe the SDTM model and implementation guide and the relationships between them.
    -Model timing variables correctly for relative, actual, planned and time point data
    -Identify Findings About candidate data and model them correctly
    -Construct accurate relationship datasets for non-standard variables and linkages across datasets

A data model respresent a real world situation about which a database of collected data 
can be structured. 
In our case the data model represent a trial or research study. 
The model organizes elements of data and standarizes how these elements relate to one or another
and includes properties of the real world entities. 
It is important to understand that the sdtm is the overaching model from which multiple 
implementations are based. 

For example the nonclinical sample SENDIG,  the clinical SDTMIG, and the MEDICAL DEVICES, and 
the terapeutic area user guides (TAUGs)


The SDTM model define the structure for all data or research data regardless 
of how it was collected. 

OBSERVATION CLASS
  Highlevel grouping loosely based on the topic being represented by the data

SDTM : 3 GENERAL OBSERVATION CLASSES
  1- Interventions
  2- Events
  3- Findings
This observation classes  are define in a model by the set of variables available 
whithin each that are used to represent the data around the concepts inherent to that class. 
Most data can fit into one of this 3 classes. 

For example: 
  1- Interventions: Concomital medications, Exposure, Substance use.
  2- Events: Adverse event, Disposition, Medical History, Protocol Deviation, Clinical Event
  3- Findings: ECG, Incl\Escl, Labs, Physical Exam, Pharmacokinetics concentrations, 
Mycrobiology specimen, Questionnaire, SubjChar, Vital Sign, Drug Accountability, 
Pharmacokinetics parameters, Microbiology Susceptibility. 

There are also, other SPECIAL PURPOSE DATASETS, such as Demographics, Comments, 
Subject elements (age, Gender, Weigth, Race..), Subject Visits, Familiar antecedents.
They are SPECIFIC STANDARIZED STRUCTURES for representing additional information, that 
would not otherwise fit into the general observation classes. 


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mI2jLx-ZEWE
INTRODUCTION OF SDTM Implementation Guide

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mI2jLx-ZEWE
Introduction to SEND Implementation Guide




